# Lie Algebras (Road to Reality)
A Lie [[Algebra]] is a [[Associativity|non-associative]] algebra formed by the union of:
- A [[Vector (Linear Algebra)]] *G*
- An [[Operators|operation]] called the "Lie Bracket"
- An alternating Bi-linear map that satisfies the [[Jacobi Identity]].

## Relevence to Physics

Physicists are often required to work with [[Group Theory|Lie Groups]], which can be represented as [[Matrix (Linear Algebra)|matrices]]. Doing calculations with these matrices is difficult, because they are subject to non-linear restrictions. (*like what?*) Luckily, there is a convenient alternative, which allows us to expect linear restrictions instead.

It turns out that the local nature of a Lie Group can be understood in terms of an [[Algebra]] that can be constructed from considering the sums of **infinitesimal** group elements.

Given two infinitesimal group elements A and B, their matrix sum represents their group product. This is made possible by allowing ourselves to ignore extremely small values generated by powers of fractional values.

This sum is [[Commutativity|commutative]], but the group could be non-Abelian. To capture the non-abelian nature of the group, we must also consider the **group commutators**, a, b, inv(a), inv(b), which are also called **Lie Brackets**.

`[A, B] = AB - BA`

We say that the Lie Algebra of a Lie Group is constructed by repeated application of addition and subtraction, and by the bracket operation. It is also customary to allow multiplication by scalar values (real or complex).

In [[Quantum Mechanics]], the Lie Algebra elements have direct interpretations as physical quantities such as angular momentum, when the group is the rotation group.

## Properties
Lie Brackets satisfy:
- [[Distributivity]]
- The anti-symmetry property: `[A, B] = -[B, A]`
- The [[Jacobi Identity]]

## sL(2)
[as taught by André Henriques](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qw5jonrLbPU)

The Lie Algebra sL(2) is the set of 2 x 2 matrices whose [[Trace (Operation)|trace]] is 0. This set has 3 elements that we'll call H, E, and F: (Using row-major ordering)
- H = [1, 0; 0, -1]
- E = [0, 1; 0, 0]
- F = [0, 0; 1, 0]

We can also think of it as being spanned by 3 elements, H, E, and F, whose Lie bracket's are given by:
- [H, E] = 2E
- [H, F] = -2F
- [E, F] = H