# Tangent Space

A tangent space is a [[Vector (Linear Algebra)]] that lives at every point on a [[Manifolds]]. Geometers and Physicists are interest in tangent spaces because they enable algebra to be done on manifolds.

## Construction
As taught by [Whyb Maths](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tkDmDZDeFvQ)

- Start by choosing a point p on the manifold.
- Consider the set of all possible smooth curves that pass through p. We’ll call this set C<sup>∞</sup><sub>p</sub>(M), which we pronounce: *C infinity of the Manifold at p*.
- This set is actually a vector space, because we can add any two functions contained in this set, or scalar multiply them.
- This set is useful, but not the one we want, largely because it’s infinite dimensional. We can use it to build a more desirable vector space.
- Each curve of our set can be thought of as a 1 dimensional subset of our manifold. We can write them as ɸ(λ) *Phi of Lamda*.
- We can produce a second vector space at our point p by taking the derivative of every smooth curve passing through it. The vector implied by each derivative has a magnitude dependent on “how fast the parameter Lambda runs through the curve”. Higher values of Lambda imply longer vectors.
- We now have an infinite set of vectors, in which we can find vectors with any direction and magnitude we wish. This is the tangent space of our point p!

We notate the tangent space of p on M as T<sub>p</sub>M. The vector space has the same dimensionality as the manifold M.

## Insights
**The fundamental insight gained from constructing a tangent space is that a derivative operator is a vector, and vice versa**. The algebraic structure generated by the partial derivatives of x<sup>μ</sup> and x<sup>-1</sup> has the algebraic structure of a vector space.